The way to avoid people turning your day
upside down and screwing up your workout
is get up early and do it before anybody
has the opportunity to ruin your day. If
that's 6:00 a.m.
then get up at 6:00 a.m. If If the
people who like to ruin your day get up
early, well then you got to get up
earlier than them.
And that way you can get everything done
and
on top of that, there's definitely a
mindset where you wake up, you do some
seriously Herculean
Like you're when you're training with
variable resistance, you are putting
huge loads through the body. And if
you're doing it right, you're probably
getting stronger every single time
you're doing it. Once like you know, I I
did my squats this morning. I had 500 lb
through each leg. So, I'm training one
leg at a time, upwards of 30
repetitions, like incredible stimulus.
Basically anything else that's going to
happen today is fairly inconsequential
to what I did first thing in the
morning.
So, I you know, I hear about it. I
really don't stress about it. It's a lot
easier to handle things. Do the hard
thing first and then everything else is
like you're on autopilot.
>> [music]
>> Hi, my name's John Jaquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective on a lot of
different subjects when it comes to
health, performance, all sorts of things
like that. If you want to make yourself
better, I might have some of the
information you're looking for. Today, I
want to answer a question I get all the
time
which is what's the best time of day to
work out? Now,
let me add some context to the question
that I think is being asked most often,
which is a little more complicated than
just what time
it's what time in context to
what nutrients I need,
meals, where am I going to be best in
performance? And now,
as I'm sure most of you have noticed,
I'm talking a lot about fast-acting
testosterone.
So, with fast-acting testosterone,
you take it in the morning
and it does its job. It's actually
supposed to mimic the natural circadian
rhythm. So, this is this is a
testosterone approach. It's a sort of a
different approach to testosterone
replacement therapy that
doesn't shut down your natural
testosterone production. But again, I
get all sorts of questions. Well, should
I work out like right when I take the
testosterone? I got great news for you.
None of the things that I mentioned
matter
at all. So, if you're doing fast-acting
testosterone you know, on a daily basis,
which is how it works, then great. If
you have your testosterone in the
morning, the
receptor sites are saturated. As long as
you train at some point in that day and
have the proper amount of protein, which
is 1 g per pound of body weight, you'll
be able to grow. Like your your body
will take advantage. You can work out
before you take your testosterone,
though I wouldn't recommend that cuz
you're supposed to take it first thing
in the morning. You could take it right
when you have your testosterone. It
won't you won't do better because all
you're trying to do is saturate the
receptor sites.
So, you could also take your
testosterone in the morning or have your
protein all in the morning or in the
middle of day, doesn't matter.
Work out at night.
Again, does not matter. Now, I would say
from a consistency standpoint or a
practical standpoint, what I like to do
is do my workout in the morning because
there's a lot of people in my life that
like to rearrange my day. I'm married,
so some of you will be able to identify
with people in your home who like to
take your day and just throw it in the
trash and they have a different idea of
what you're going to do with your day.
Sort of like I'm sure you've heard the
joke like, "I only have one day off this
week. Of course I'd like to spend the
entire day at a pumpkin patch." So, that
sort of thing. So, the way to avoid
people turning your day upside down and
screwing up your workout is get up early
and do it before anybody has the
opportunity
to ruin your day. If that's 6:00 a.m.
then get up at 6:00 a.m. If If the
people who like to ruin your day get up
early, well then you got to get up
earlier than them.
And that way you can get everything done
and
on top of that, there's definitely a
mindset where you wake up, you do some
seriously Herculean
Like you're when you're training with
variable resistance, you are putting
huge loads through the body. And if
you're doing it right, you're probably
getting stronger every single time
you're doing it.
Once like you know, I I did my squats
this morning. I had 500 lb through each
leg. So, I'm training one leg at a time,
upwards of 30 repetitions, like
incredible stimulus.
Basically anything else that's going to
happen today is fairly inconsequential
to what I did first thing in the
morning.
So, I you know, I hear about it. I
really don't stress about it. It's a lot
easier to handle things. Uh do the hard
thing first and then everything else is
like you're on autopilot. It's a mindset
thing. That's not like
maybe we'll find out later that there is
a brain chemistry shift that really
makes you able to uh
deal with more things, just actual
increase in cognitive performance. The
book Spark, which came out in the
mid uh I want to say maybe like 2012,
did touch on the possibility
of exercise having a very immediate
effect on cognitive performance, but I
don't think there's enough literature to
really like bold claims say that, but it
sure seems that way. So, my advice is
first thing in the morning, but if you
need to find some other place in the day
to put your workout, keep it there, keep
it consistent and just keep people from
disrupting your pattern.
So, again, move it to the morning if you
don't have any other option. I hope that
helps. Keep the workouts consistent.
This is one of the most important things
when you're building your body to its
highest performing level, you need to be
consistent. Thanks and uh leave a
comment. Let me know what you think. If
this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
We've got the answer for you.
>> [music]